What's the chance of rolling snake eyes?
What's the chance of flipping heads 3 times in a row?
When calculating the probability of 2 or more events happening together,
we can use the multiplication rule of probability.
We'll start with independent events where one event's outcome
has no effect on the other event's outcome.
For example,
what's the probability of rolling snake eyes?
Each roll is an independent event
because the value on one die has no influence on the value of the second die.
The multiplication rule of probability says that the probability of two events,
A and B,
happening together
is the probability of event A
multiplied
by the probability of event B.
In this case,
the probability of rolling a 1 on the first die
multiplied by the probability of rolling a 1 on the second die.
This is the case if you're rolling the dice together
or one at a time.
The probability of rolling a 1 on a die
is 1 out of 6,
so the probability of rolling a 1 on both dice
is 1/6 times 1/6
or
1 out of 36.
Across all 36 possible rolls of 2 dice,
one of them
is snake eyes.
Let's look at a second example.
What's the probability of flipping heads 3 times in a row?
Well,
it's the probability of the first flip landing heads
multiplied
by the probability of the 2nd flip landing heads
by the probability of the 3rd flip landing heads.
1/2 times 1/2 x 1/22,
1/8.